Release notes v0.52.0 (#3805)
grafana/k6: release notes/v0.52.0.md

k6 `v0.52.0` is here 🎉! Some special mentions included in this release:

> - [We switched from `goja` to our own fork named `sobek`](#switch-goja-to-our-own-fork-named-sobek-3775)
> - [Panics are no longer being captured](#panics-are-no-longer-being-captured-3777)
> - [The `web-dashboard` built-in output becomes `dashboard`](#the-web-dashboard-built-in-output-becomes-dashboard-xk6-dashboard163)
> - [We've added experimental support for TypeScript and ES6+](#experimental-support-for-typescript-and-es6-using-esbuild-3738)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [We've switched to our own fork of `goja` named `sobek`](#switch-goja-to-our-own-fork-named-sobek-3775).
- [Panics are no longer captured](#panics-are-no-longer-being-captured-3777).
- [The `web-dashboard` built-in output is now `dashboard`](#the-web-dashboard-built-in-output-becomes-dashboard-xk6-dashboard163).
- [We've added experimental support for TypeScript and ES6+](#experimental-support-for-typescript-and-es6-using-esbuild-3738).
```

> - [`k6/browser` has graduated from an experimental module](#k6browser-has-graduated-from-an-experimental-module-3793)
> - [`k6/browser` has now a fully Async API](#k6browser-has-now-a-fully-async-api-browser428)

Reviewer 2: Maybe combine these two options? WDYT

```suggestion
- `k6/browser` got a [fully Async API](#k6browser-has-now-a-fully-async-api-browser428) and [graduated from an experimental module](#k6browser-has-graduated-from-an-experimental-module-3793)
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `k6/browser` has [graduated from an experimental module](#k6browser-has-graduated-from-an-experimental-module-3793), and now has a [fully Async API](#k6browser-has-now-a-fully-async-api-browser428).
```

If I may suggest here. 🤓

## Breaking changes

### Switch `goja` to our own fork named `sobek` [#3775](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3775)

> To accelerate the development speed and bring [ECMAScript Modules (ESM)] support to k6 earlier (https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3265),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To accelerate the development speed and bring ECMAScript Modules (ESM) support to k6 earlier (https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3265),
```

Are the square brackets intentional? Would you maybe insert a link?

we have decided to create a fork of the [`goja`](https://github.com/dop251/goja/) project under the Grafana GitHub organization,
named [`sobek`](https://github.com/grafana/sobek).

> So, since this release, k6 (and its extensions) starts using `sobek` instead of the original `goja`, for all (of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting on this release, k6 (and its extensions) now use `sobek` instead of the original `goja`, for all (of the
```

> publicly exposed parts of the API) except for a couple of packages that are only used internally by k6.
> 
> Find further details in [#3772](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3772) and [#3773](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3773).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
publicly exposed parts of the API) except for a couple of packages that are only used internally by k6.

All extensions linked in the docs have had a PR for the transition opened as explained in this [comment](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3773#issuecomment-2182113677). Any extension author that hasn't gotten PR can follow the same steps.

Find further details in [#3772](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3772) and [#3773](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3773).
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publicly exposed parts of the API) except for a couple of packages that are only used internally by k6.

All k6 extensions linked in the docs have had a PR for this transition opened, as explained in this [comment](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3773#issuecomment-2182113677). Any extension author who hasn't gotten a PR can follow the same steps.

Find further details in [#3772](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3772) and [#3773](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3773).
```

Just a tiny edit.

### Panics are no longer being captured [#3777](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3777)

Since this release, Go panics are no longer being captured by k6. This means that if a panic occurs while running a test,
the k6 process will crash, and the panic stack trace will be printed to the console.

> We decided to change this behavior because it's something that was left from the past, as a safeguard, but it's not as
> good as it might seem, as for most cases with multiple goroutines/async it is not enough, and also makes a bunch of potential
> bugs seem like less of an issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decided to change this behavior because it's something that was left from the past as a safeguard, but it's not as
good as it might seem. For most cases with multiple goroutines/async, it's not enough and also makes a bunch of potential
bugs seem like less of an issue.
```

most likely make the experience of developing k6 extensions friendlier.

### `lib.State` no longer has `Group` [#3750](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3750)

As the result of refactoring the implementation of `group` and `check` methods, in order to decouple them, and thus 
enable other future improvements, the `lib.State` object no longer has a `Group` field.

This change should not affect most users, except for a couple of extensions, for which the use of `Group` was
already questionable:
- `xk6-fasthttp`
- `xk6-g0`

### The `web-dashboard` built-in output becomes `dashboard` [xk6-dashboard#163](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-dashboard/pull/163)

Since `v0.49.0`, k6 includes [xk6-dashboard](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-dashboard) as a built-in output extension.
The name of the built-in module is the same as was the output name (`web-dashboard`) registered by the extension. 
Therefore, if you try to use it as an extension (for example, a newer version), you will get the following error:

```sh
k6 run -o web-dashboard script.js

ERRO[0000] invalid output extension web-dashboard, built-in output with the same type already exists
```

> So, from now on, the registered name of the extension is again the one previously used: `dashboard`. 

Reviewer 2: I found this paragraph a bit complicated from the reader's perspective; maybe we should just keep only the working example instead? Like:

If you're facing this error please, run k6 like the following:
```sh
k6 run -o dashboard script.js
```

Reviewer 3: I also do not understand what are the implications here, why do we still care about the dashboard as an extension? And now this sounds broken. All the env vars are no longer consistent with the name.

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming we meant here something like: from now on, use `-o dashboard`, but if you build  `xk6 build master --with "github.com/grafana/xk6-dashboard@main"` obviously the new version of dashboard will be `-o xk6-dashboard`. But I am not sure if such details are essential in release notes :shrug:

Reviewer 5: BTW this change is irrelevant in k6 changelog, so I would remove it...

Reviewer 3: Ok, this matches my understanding from the pull request's description. I agree with Ivan that this isn't relevant for the k6 changelog.

Author: Removed, as suggested! 👍🏻

Thus, it is possible to use a version of the [xk6-dashboard](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-dashboard) that is newer than
the one integrated in k6. In this case, the `dashboard` name must be used as the output name.

### Other breaking changes

- [browser#1318](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1318) The `Mouse.up` and `Mouse.down` methods no longer take x and y coordinates. Instead, they dispatch events on the current mouse position.

## New features

### Experimental support for TypeScript and ES6+ using esbuild [#3738](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3738)

This release of k6 introduces experimental support for TypeScript and ES6+ using esbuild, thanks to a new

> [compatibility mode](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6/javascript-compatibility-mode/) named `experimental_enhanced`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[compatibility mode](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6/javascript-typescript-compatibility-mode/) named `experimental_enhanced`.
```

I suggested we change the URL/title to include "TypeScript", but waiting for feedback on the PR for these docs changes if this makes sense or not. If we don't, you can ignore this comment. 🙇

```sh
k6 run --compatibility-mode=experimental_enhanced script.js
```

With this new compatibility mode, the test source code is transformed using esbuild instead of Babel, which also means

> that source files with the extension _".ts"_ are loaded by esbuild's TypeScript loader,  which results in partial 
> TypeScript support: it removes the type information, but does not provide type safety.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that source files with the extension _".ts"_ are loaded by esbuild's TypeScript loader, which results in partial 
TypeScript support: it removes the type information but doesn't provide type safety.
```

### `k6/browser` has graduated from an experimental module [#3793](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3793)

> The browser module is now available as `k6/browser` instead of `k6/experimental/browser`. The previous `k6/experimental/browser` module will be removed on September 23rd, 2024. Please see [the migration guide](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6-browser/migrating-to-k6-v0-52/) for more information on how to update your scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser module is now available as `k6/browser` instead of `k6/experimental/browser`. The previous `k6/experimental/browser` module will be removed on September 23rd, 2024. Refer to [the migration guide](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6-browser/migrating-to-k6-v0-52/) for more information on how to update your scripts.
```

## UX improvements and enhancements

- [#3740](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3740) enables k6 extensions to initialize `ReadableStream` objects from Go code (`io.Reader`).
- [#3798](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3798) adjusts a severity level of a log message from `warn` to `debug` for cases when k6 can't detect the terminal's size.
- [#3797](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3797) makes it possible to output the archive to stdout by using `-` as the `--archive-out`.

> - [browser#1370](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/issues/1370) The `GetAttribute` methods now return `false` when the attribute is missing, making it easier to check for the presence of an attribute.
> - [browser#1371](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/issues/1371) The `TextContent` methods now return `false` when the element's text content cannot be grabbed (like a JS `document`), making it easier to check for the presence of text content.
> - [browser#1376](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1376) Makes `Request.headerValue` and `Response.headerValue` to be case insensitive.
> - [browser#1368](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1368) Enhances `await` usage in Javascript examples.
> - [browser#1326](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1326) Adds forgotten `BrowserContext.browser` and `Page.context` mappings.
> - [browser#1360](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1360), [browser#1327](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1327), [browser#1335](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1335), [browser#1365](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1365), [browser#1313](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1313), [browser#1322](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1322), [browser#1330](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1330), [browser#1343](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1343), [browser#1345](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1345), [browser#1352](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1352) Turns the `Browser`, `BrowserContext`, `ElementHandle`, `JSHandle`, `Keyboard`, `Mouse`, `Locator`, and `Page` types' panics into errors for stability and better error handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [browser#1370](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/issues/1370) the `GetAttribute` methods now return `false` when the attribute is missing, making it easier to check for the presence of an attribute.
- [browser#1371](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/issues/1371) the `TextContent` methods now return `false` when the element's text content cannot be grabbed (like a JS `document`), making it easier to check for the presence of text content.
- [browser#1376](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1376) makes `Request.headerValue` and `Response.headerValue` to be case insensitive.
- [browser#1368](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1368) enhances `await` usage in Javascript examples.
- [browser#1326](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1326) adds forgotten `BrowserContext.browser` and `Page.context` mappings.
- [browser#1360](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1360), [browser#1327](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1327), [browser#1335](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1335), [browser#1365](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1365), [browser#1313](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1313), [browser#1322](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1322), [browser#1330](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1330), [browser#1343](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1343), [browser#1345](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1345), [browser#1352](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1352) turns the `Browser`, `BrowserContext`, `ElementHandle`, `JSHandle`, `Keyboard`, `Mouse`, `Locator`, and `Page` types' panics into errors for stability and better error handling.
```

Nit for consistency.

## Bug fixes

- [#3774](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3774) fixes a `require` warning for those tests using the stdin.
- [#3776](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3776) fixes a panic caused by passing an undefined handler to timers.
- [#3779](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3779) fixes a panic caused by registering an undefined handler in gRPC streams.
- [xk6-websockets#73](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-websockets/pull/73) fixes a panic caused by registering an undefined handler in WebSockets.

> - [browser#1369](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1369) Improves `valueFromRemoteObject` `null` detection by returning a Go `nil` instead of `"null"` as a `string`.
> - [browser#1386](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1386) Correctly handles empty string flags that don't have a value.
> - [browser#1380](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1380) Ensures that `JSHandle.evaluate` and `JSHandle.evaluateHandle` both set themselves as the first argument.
> - [browser#1346](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1346) Fixes an IFrame panic ("we either navigate top level or have old version of the navigated frame") that happens during navigation.
> - [browser#1349](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1349), [browser#1354](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1354) Fixes `Request` mappings.
> - [browser#1334](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1334) Fixes an issue where clicking on a link that opens a new tab never navigates to the href link.
> - [browser#1318](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1318) Fixes the `Mouse.move` to correctly dispatch a `down` event.
> - [browser#1301](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1301) Fixes an error that occurs when working with a second tab and navigating to a URL.
> - [browser#1387](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1387) Fixes a panic when the new document or request is missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [browser#1369](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1369) improves `valueFromRemoteObject` `null` detection by returning a Go `nil` instead of `"null"` as a `string`.
- [browser#1386](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1386) correctly handles empty string flags that don't have a value.
- [browser#1380](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1380) ensures that `JSHandle.evaluate` and `JSHandle.evaluateHandle` both set themselves as the first argument.
- [browser#1346](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1346) fixes an IFrame panic ("we either navigate top level or have old version of the navigated frame") that happens during navigation.
- [browser#1349](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1349), [browser#1354](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1354) fixes `Request` mappings.
- [browser#1334](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1334) fixes an issue where clicking on a link that opens a new tab never navigates to the href link.
- [browser#1318](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1318) fixes the `Mouse.move` to correctly dispatch a `down` event.
- [browser#1301](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1301) fixes an error that occurs when working with a second tab and navigating to a URL.
- [browser#1387](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1387) fixes a panic when the new document or request is missing.
```

## Maintenance and internal improvements

- [#3752](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3752), [#3767](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3767), [#3770](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3770), [#3780](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3780), [#3782](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3782), [#3795](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3795) updates several dependencies.
- [#3786](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3786), [#3787](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3787), [#3788](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3788), [#3789](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3789), [#3803](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3803) updates experimental modules.
- [#3749](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3749) stops printing `goja` stack traces on panics, which has been empty since a while.
- [#3760](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3760) fixes race conditions in ramping-vus tests.
- [#3769](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3769) removes a linter setting no longer used.
- [#3800](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3800) adds test coverage for outputting the archive to stdout.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
The rendering of this list seems broken. I guess the reason is this additional line.

> - [browser#1298](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1298) Splits browser mappings into separate files for better organization and maintainability.
> - [browser#1321](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1321) Adds test helpers for async VU execution to reduce the boilerplate in the tests.
> - [browser#1357](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1357) Updates `Group` and `Tag` usage for the latest k6.
> - [browser#1361](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1361) Precalculates the browser version information to prevent I/O calls when the `version` and `userAgent` methods are called. This change allows the browser module to expose these methods as a sync API to be consistent with the Playwright's API.
> - [browser#1377](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1377) Uses the Goja fork called Sobek in the browser module.
> - [browser#1373](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1373) Provides sync and async APIs within the browser module for making the migration to the async API easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [browser#1298](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1298) splits browser mappings into separate files for better organization and maintainability.
- [browser#1321](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1321) adds test helpers for async VU execution to reduce the boilerplate in the tests.
- [browser#1357](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1357) updates `Group` and `Tag` usage for the latest k6.
- [browser#1361](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1361) precalculates the browser version information to prevent I/O calls when the `version` and `userAgent` methods are called. This change allows the browser module to expose these methods as a sync API to be consistent with the Playwright's API.
- [browser#1377](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1377) uses the Goja fork called Sobek in the browser module.
- [browser#1373](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1373) provides sync and async APIs within the browser module for making the migration to the async API easier.
```

## Roadmap

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Native ECMAScript modules

As mentioned above the k6 team has forked goja into [sobek](https://github.com/grafana/sobek) and is currently working on [native ECMAScript modules support](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3265). The current work in progress can be found in this [PR](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3456) and any feedback is welcome.

As part of that there likely will be some breaking changes due to the current not native support allowing stuff that shouldn't work. Like for example mixing [CommonJS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CommonJS) and ESM in the same file. Which is for example why we have added a [warning](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3807) that it won't work. 

Support across multiple files is *also* not standard but due to amount of users that seems to be mixing them *across* files a lot of work has been done to support it. It is still likely that in the future warnings and potentially at some point future breaking changes will be enacted.

```

cc @joanlopez

### OpenTelemetry metrics output

We're also happy to share that this release cycle, we've been working on [xk6-output-opentelemetry](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/results-output/real-time/opentelemetry/), a k6 output extension that allows you to send k6 metrics to OpenTelemetry-compatible backends. We're looking for feedback from the community. If you're interested, please try it and let us know [via the extension repository](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-output-opentelemetry/issues)!

> Depending on the feedback, we plan to include this extension as an experimental output in the next K6 release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the feedback, we plan to include this extension as an experimental output in the next k6 release.
```

we have decided to create a fork of the [`goja`](https://github.com/dop251/goja/) project under the Grafana GitHub organization,
named [`sobek`](https://github.com/grafana/sobek).

So, since this release, k6 (and its extensions) starts using `sobek` instead of the original `goja`, for all (of the
publicly exposed parts of the API) except for a couple of packages that are only used internally by k6.

Find further details in [#3772](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3772) and [#3773](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3773).

### Panics are no longer being captured [#3777](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3777)

Since this release, Go panics are no longer being captured by k6. This means that if a panic occurs while running a test,
the k6 process will crash, and the panic stack trace will be printed to the console.

We decided to change this behavior because it's something that was left from the past, as a safeguard, but it's not as
good as it might seem, as for most cases with multiple goroutines/async it is not enough, and also makes a bunch of potential
bugs seem like less of an issue.

> Thus, this will help us to identify and fix bugs more easily, to improve the overall stability of k6, and

Reviewer 2: TBH not sure if `easily` works here

```suggestion
Thus, this will help us to identify and fix bugs earlier, improve the overall stability of k6, and
```

most likely make the experience of developing k6 extensions friendlier.

### `lib.State` no longer has `Group` [#3750](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3750)

As the result of refactoring the implementation of `group` and `check` methods, in order to decouple them, and thus 
enable other future improvements, the `lib.State` object no longer has a `Group` field.

This change should not affect most users, except for a couple of extensions, for which the use of `Group` was
already questionable:
- `xk6-fasthttp`
- `xk6-g0`

### The `web-dashboard` built-in output becomes `dashboard` [xk6-dashboard#163](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-dashboard/pull/163)

Since `v0.49.0`, k6 includes [xk6-dashboard](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-dashboard) as a built-in output extension.
The name of the built-in module is the same as was the output name (`web-dashboard`) registered by the extension. 
Therefore, if you try to use it as an extension (for example, a newer version), you will get the following error:

```sh

> k6 run -o web-dashboard script.js
> 
> 
> 
> ERRO[0000] invalid output extension web-dashboard, built-in output with the same type already exists

Reviewer 2: Let's clean some empty lines to save the screen size!

```suggestion
k6 run -o web-dashboard script.js

ERRO[0000] invalid output extension web-dashboard, built-in output with the same type already exists
```

## UX improvements and enhancements

- [#3740](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3740) enables k6 extensions to initialize `ReadableStream` objects from Go code (`io.Reader`).
- [#3798](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3798) adjusts a severity level of a log message from `warn` to `debug` for cases when k6 can't detect the terminal's size.

> - [#3797](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3797) makes it possible to output the archive to stdout by using `-` as the `--archive-out`.

Reviewer 2: In theory (in fact, probably not), this is also a minor breaking change.

Author: Wdyt? @oleiade @codebien @mstoykov

Author: Done!

- [browser#1386](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1386) Correctly handles empty string flags that don't have a value.
- [browser#1380](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1380) Ensures that `JSHandle.evaluate` and `JSHandle.evaluateHandle` both set themselves as the first argument.
- [browser#1346](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1346) Fixes an IFrame panic ("we either navigate top level or have old version of the navigated frame") that happens during navigation.
- [browser#1349](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1349), [browser#1354](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1354) Fixes `Request` mappings.
- [browser#1334](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1334) Fixes an issue where clicking on a link that opens a new tab never navigates to the href link.
- [browser#1318](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1318) Fixes the `Mouse.move` to correctly dispatch a `down` event.
- [browser#1301](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1301) Fixes an error that occurs when working with a second tab and navigating to a URL.

> - [browser#1387](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1387) Fixes an NPE when the new document or request is missing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [browser#1387](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1387) Fixes a panic when the new document or request is missing.
```

k6 `v0.52.0` is here 🎉! Some special mentions included in this release:

- [We switched from `goja` to our own fork named `sobek`](#switch-goja-to-our-own-fork-named-sobek-3775)
- [Panics are no longer being captured](#panics-are-no-longer-being-captured-3777)
- [The `web-dashboard` built-in output becomes `dashboard`](#the-web-dashboard-built-in-output-becomes-dashboard-xk6-dashboard163)

> 

Author: Yup, I was on the way as part of a last set of changes (https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3805/commits/bb8c637af4b8c8dc0d196050aac3848ed3c90932), but thanks for the suggestion! :)

## Breaking changes

### Switch `goja` to our own fork named `sobek` [#3775](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3775)

> In order to accelerate the development speed and unblock the support for [Native ESM](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3265),

Reviewer 2: Maybe expand what ESM stans for?

```suggestion
To accelerate the development speed and bring [ECMAScript Modules (ESM)] support to k6 earlier (https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3265),
```

we have decided to create a fork of the [`goja`](https://github.com/dop251/goja/) project under the Grafana GitHub organization,
named [`sobek`](https://github.com/grafana/sobek).

So, since this release, k6 (and its extensions) starts using `sobek` instead of the original `goja`, for all (of the
publicly exposed parts of the API) except for a couple of packages that are only used internally by k6.

> Find further details in [#3772](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3772) and [#3773](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/3773).

Reviewer 2: Probably, we should mention that it mainly affects the extensions, and we might need to mention the migration steps to simplify the life of extension developers. @mstoykov WDYT?

Reviewer 4: see https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3805/files#r1648494026

that source files with the extension _".ts"_ are loaded by esbuild's TypeScript loader,  which results in partial 
TypeScript support: it removes the type information, but does not provide type safety.

### `k6/browser` has graduated from an experimental module [#3793](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/3793)

The browser module is now available as `k6/browser` instead of `k6/experimental/browser`. The previous `k6/experimental/browser` module will be removed on September 23rd, 2024. Please see [the migration guide](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/using-k6-browser/migrating-to-k6-v0-52/) for more information on how to update your scripts.

### `k6/browser` has now a fully Async API [browser#428](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/issues/428)

This release introduces a fully Async API for the `k6/browser` module. This means that nearly all the methods in the module now return promises. This change is part of the ongoing effort to make the browser module more user-friendly and easier to use. Please see [the browser documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/javascript-api/k6-browser) for more information on how to use the new Async API.

Related Changes:

> - [browser#1310](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1310), [browser#1311](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1311), [browser#1312](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1312), [browser#1316](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1316) Migrate `Browser` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1328](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1328) Migrate `BrowserContext` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1337](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1337) Migrate `ElementHandle` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1367](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1367) Migrate `Frame` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1366](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1366) Migrate `JSHandle` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1314](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1314) Migrate `Keyboard` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1332](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1332) Migrate `Locator` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1323](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1323) Migrate `Mouse` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1355](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1355) Migrate `Page` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1348](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1348) Migrate `Request` APIs to async.
> - [browser#1364](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1364) Migrate `Response` APIs to async.

Reviewer 6: Should we group them? Or, the current list is fine?

```suggestion
- [browser#1310](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1310), [browser#1311](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1311), [browser#1312](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1312), [browser#1316](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1316), [browser#1328](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1328), [browser#1337](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1337), [browser#1367](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1367), [browser#1366](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1366), [browser#1314](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1314), [browser#1332](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1332), [browser#1323](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1323), [browser#1355](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1355), [browser#1348](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1348), [browser#1364](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1364) Migrates `Browser`, `BrowserContext`, `ElementHandle`, `Frame`, `JSHandle`, `Keyboard`, `Locator`, `Mouse`, `Page`, `Request`, `Response` APIs to async.
```

Author: Yeah, I think that grouped it looks nicer.
